Honey, we finally caught the bird!
-Really?
-Yes!
-Then come home quickly.
-Okay.
Make sure you prepare the cage quickly.
-Sure, I'll prepare it.
-Okay.
Help!
I'm going first, Ipung!
Out of the way!
Where are you going?
Slow down.
Didit!
It's over there.
The string is over there.
Come on!
-I'm first!
I'm going first!
I saw it first.
Hey, watch out.
There it is, Ipung!
Ipung! Didit! Don't go in there!
Over here!
Stop, hey!
-Oh, no, why did it go in there?
-Damn.
Hey, we can't chase the kite
all the way in there, can we?
Let's just check.
Maybe it's not far.
Ipung! Don't go there.
Why not?
Hey, did you know,
when Mr. Sutar passed by here yesterday,
he heard strange noises.
Like someone was following him.
Really?
Mr. Sutar must be lying.
Yeah. Let's just check it out.
Why? This is my share.
Why are you following me?
How come? No way.
First come, first served!
No fair!
You want to take everything? No way!
Stop it, you two. Don't fight.
You know what?
Since Mr. Pete was found here,
this area has become dangerous.
Look to your left, your right.
It's so dark.
My father has warned me
to come home before dusk.
Haven't you been warned too?
Yeah. I have.
Fine then, Ipung. Get it yourself.
What do you mean?
I'm the one who asked you
but you're going to leave me now, Didit?
-Ipung, let's just go home.
-What?
We can chase other fallen kites
tomorrow, Ipung.
Here. Take my kite.
It's a bit torn, but it's okay.
Here.
Ipung! Let's go home. It's dusk already.
-Just a minute!
-Come on, let's go!
Hurry. Your grandparents will be angry.
-I'm going ahead!
-See you, Lis!
See you!
Do you know even what time is it?
-See you!
-Bye.
Done.
Move it, Dad.
Where have you been?
Huh? Why are you bathing them
at this hour?
Hey, boy.
Yeah, I just got the chance.
So, who's competing
in tomorrow's contest, Grandpa?
-Is it Petruk again?
-I don't think so.
Let's give others a chance.
Petruk can't keep winning all the time.
-Then who?
-I don't know.
I'll meditate first tomorrow
to seek enlightenment.
How fancy. You even need to meditate.
All right. I'm heading home now.
Yeah. Before it's dusk.
-Go home and take a bath.
-Yes, sir.
I look forward to your meditation results.
Okay.
Grandpa Manto.
Have you been here long?
Well, quite a while.
Just stopping by to get some sage leaves
for the turtledove's herbal medicine.
I see.
Well, then.
I'll head home now.
-Okay, Grandpa. Take care.
-Sure.
-What are you doing, Grandpa?
-Well, you see…
Right.
Why did Grandpa Manto leave so early?
He said he was in a hurry
due to some business.
Grandpa.
Grandpa Darmo just told me that
Petruk won't be in tomorrow's contest.
What?
-Really?
-Yes.
If that's the case,
clearly no one can compete with Arjuna.
Perfect.
Of course.
-Let me try, Grandpa.
-Sure.
-Teach me, okay?
-Yes.
I'll give it right away.
Not like that. Don't give it directly.
First stroke and massage its head.
Then feed it slowly.
Yes, like that.
You need to practice often to be smooth.
Got it!
This is a piece of cake, Grandpa.
Let's practice first.
Ipung, not like that.
There's a rhythm to it.
How?
Listen.
That's how it should be.
Ipung!
Stop whistling.
It's already dusk.
Instead of going home
and changing clothes,
you came here!
I know.
I'll take a bath and change after this.
You should have bathed in the afternoon.
No one bathes at dusk.
And you too!
You don't even remind your own grandson!
Hey. Ipung.
Hurry up.
Before Grandma scolds you again.
Okay.
Ipung! How many times
do I have to tell you?
I know, Grandma.
Honey.
Who is it?
Can you come back now?
-Honey.
-Yes?
-Talk to your grandson.
-What?
He's becoming more and more like you.
Well, he's just a kid.
It's normal.
He'll figure things out when he's older.
That's exactly why.
Don't teach him anything weird
while he's still young.
-What am I even teaching him?
-Well…
He's always obsessing over birds now.
Don't let it get out of hand.
Yes. I know.
This must be
because you're thinking about Agus Pete.
Isn't that right?
Listen.
Have you forgotten?
Back then, people disappeared
without a trace.
Those things don't happen anymore.
It's safe now.
If it's safe, why is it still like this?
Like what?
Agus Pete?
He's still around, isn't he?
Still alive and well.
See! The kid's whistling again.
I'll talk to him after this.
I'm heading out now.
Please get my jacket.
Ipung.
What is it, Grandpa?
Listen carefully to what I'm about to say.
When it's dusk,
as Grandma has reminded you,
you should stop whistling.
-It's dangerous.
-Come on, Grandpa.
It's just whistling.
You're allowed to do it.
Why can't I do it?
Enough! Just listen to your Grandma.
Okay?
Ipung.
If you behave,
you can come with me to the competition.
The competition.
-Really, Grandpa?
-Yes.
Awesome!
Here, Ipung.
I've got something nice for you.
This was my toy when I was little.
-Let me try it, Grandpa.
-Sure.
-Thank you, Grandpa.
-Yes.
Now, I'm going on patrol.
Okay.
-Be good, okay?
-Yes, Grandpa.
Help!
Grandpa.
What?
What happened to Grandpa Darmo?
I came here earlier
-to pick up Grandpa Darmo for the patrol.
-Okay.
I called, but there was no answer.
Then I went in, but no one was inside.
Then I found him collapsed.
Grandpa Darmo was on the floor.
What should we do now?
Grandpa! What should we do with him?
-Let's carry him outside.
-Okay! Let's go!
-Where is he?
-There. Inside. There he is.
News of passing. Indeed, we belong to God,
and indeed, to Him we shall return.
This is to inform
all Kertorangking people,
It is with great sorrow that we announce
the passing of
Mr. Darmo…
You have to eat something.
Then drink your herbal medicine.
His body is laid on
his family residence.
Honey?
Honey? Honey!
Honey.
Grandpa?
What's wrong, Grandpa?
Why are all the birds released?
Grandpa?
Grandpa.
Ipung.
Please help Grandma.
Grandpa?
Ipung.
What do you need help with?
This.
Just need to put this in?
Where's Grandpa?
He was calling me earlier.
Whoa!
She just left like that.
That's not me.
Come here quickly.
Ipung.
Grandma, who is that?
Grandma?
Grandma!
Just put it here.
Please get two chairs.
Put them here. Hurry up.
Good, leave it there.
-Where should I put it?
-Lean it there.
I feel really bad about Grandpa Darmo.
By the way,
how did Grandpa Darmo pass away?
What happened?
Last night, someone was going
to pick him up for the night patrol.
But they found him on the kitchen floor.
And, unfortunately, he died right there.
My goodness.
Even though many people said
that Grandpa Darmo had a protection.
Usually, people with protection
don't die easily.
Yet he died just from slipping.
Speak carefully.
Did he really have
a supernatural protection?
How do you know?
Many people have said so.
Many people have disappeared here.
People said they were eaten by ghosts!
Don't tell such strange stories!
You don't believe me?
That's why many elders here
have a protection to stay safe.
But is it true that such things
still exist in this modern age?
Well, what's important
is to live righteously,
and be diligent in worship.
And you should repent quickly.
Why me? You go first.
Then I'll follow your lead. Right?
No way. I'm too busy.
-Quiet. You'll wake up Grandpa Darmo.
-Bullshit.
What about Wiwik's husband?
Still like a walking corpse?
Yes, obviously.
Pete is the same
whether he's sick or healthy, right?
-Can't do anything. Isn't that right?
-Yes, correct.
Wiwik is really something else.
How could she even marry Pete?
-Right! His life is a mess.
-We told her, but she wouldn't listen.
Is there anything I can help with?
Here, Wiwik.
Here. Bring it inside.
Before the guests leave.
Wiwik.
I heard you're planning
to hold a ceremony?
Yes, for my husband.
-Wiwik, can you make more tea?
-Sure.
Wiwik, have you checked yet?
Checked what?
I heard your husband, Pete,
just got a bird as a pet.
Maybe his illness is--
I've taken him to the clinic.
They said he had a stroke.
-Here's your drink.
-Yes.
Is this your toy, Ipung?
Yes, Auntie.
It must have fallen
when I grabbed my phone.
-Thanks, Auntie.
-Sure.
Excuse me.
-Hurry up!
-Okay.
What's wrong, Grandpa?
Grandpa?
Stop asking so many questions!
Hurry up and get in!
You're troublesome and slow!
What do you mean?
-How dare you talk back?
-Just throw him inside!
Take that!
No!
I'm coming!
Grandma, why did you knock
so hard on the door?
Who knocked?
I've been here the whole time.
What's wrong?
I was haunted in my dream.
I'm sorry, Grandma. I'm really scared.
In my dream, you weren't yourself.
I was buried alive, Grandma!
That's why
you should listen to your elders.
Or you'll have nightmares like that.
That is why
you need to stop whistling all the time.
You're lucky it was only in your dream.
What if it happens for real?
Grandma!
You really forgive me, right, Grandma?
Please forgive me quickly!
Forgive me, Grandma!
Yes, all right.
Are you going with your Grandpa?
Yes.
Look, he is getting ready now.
Go and take a shower.
Give me back my husband.
Give me back my husband now.
-Hello.
-Hey.
-Ready?
-Yes.
-What number did you get?
-Not yet. I haven't got a number yet.
Ipung!
-Yes, Grandpa?
-Please help me get a number first.
-Here's the money. Over there.
-Okay.
-Here you go, sir.
-Yes.
-Thank you.
-Who's this?
-Here, sir.
-Sakti, right?
-Yes, Sakti.
Okay. Here you go, sir.
-Thank you.
Hey, look at you, Ipung!
-Ready to be your grandfather's successor?
-Yes, Uncle.
-Do you have your own bird yet?
-Not yet.
Then ask your grandpa! He has many.
Then register here under your own name.
I've asked,
but Grandpa hasn't given me one yet.
Well, you must keep trying.
Stay motivated, Ipung.
Don't give up, Ipung.
-Who is it today? Arjuna?
-Arjuna.
Okay, here.
-Here.
-Okay. Please, take it.
-Thanks, Ipung.
-Yes, thanks!
You're welcome.
Kang.
Is it true?
Darmo died because Petruk died?
Yes.
Because of Petruk's death,
no power was looking after Darmo.
He put his protection in that bird.
I see.
But it seems like
it has something to do with Agus Pete.
Look, in previous incidents,
the people disappeared too,
passing to the other world.
If Agus Pete is really the culprit,
why hasn't he disappeared?
What's really going on?
What taboo did he break?
That's what I've been thinking about.
-Here, Grandpa.
-Okay, Ipung.
-Number 16.
-Yes.
-Where's number 16?
-Right here.
Oh, it's there.
Come on, let's take the bird there.
Please be careful. Slowly.
What's wrong? What's happening?
What's wrong with Grandma?
Grandma?
Honey.
This isn't right anymore.
No more excuses!
I've made arrangements
with Brother Manto to fix all of this.
Where's the safety you promised?
I almost died!
Enough of that. Just do as I say!
Tirto?
Tirto.
Don't come, don't disturb.
Pete!
Come out, Pete!
I need to talk.
Pete!
Why
are you targeting the villagers?
Because I need to exchange places.
So I can get out!
What's wrong with you?
What happened to you?
Pete!
What do you want?
You're doing it wrong, Pete.
If this is how you do it…
you might as well stay here forever.
Speak up, Pete.
Answer me.
This is Ganda Rumbing's doing.
Agus Pete opened the portal again.
So it's true, Brother?
Agus Pete is the one hunting villagers?
Yes.
Because he's being held captive.
He was given a condition.
He can leave
if he can find his replacement.
If he can't find a replacement
within 40 days,
he will vanish.
Damn him.
Now, it was Agus Pete who took Darmo.
But Darmo died first.
Wiwik.
After what happened yesterday,
there are still no signs
of your husband returning, right?
Not yet.
Even though there are only six days left.
What should I do?
In that case,
you must give the potion
to someone who can help you.
Who could it be?
There's one thing you must find.
Warm blood.
Your husband will give you the sign.
The important thing is,
you must be able to read that sign.
And…
give that potion to that person.
Don't run out of time.
If you run out of time…
your husband will vanish.
-One, two, three,
-…two, three,
-four, five, six, seven, eight.
Now pull your right hand to the left side.
-One, two…
-Ipung.
I heard you have a bird whistle.
And they say your whistle is powerful.
Really, Ipung?
Does that whistle
really make birds turn into cobras?
Of course not.
At most, they turn into dolphins.
Is there really such a whistle?
Of course. My grandfather has one.
My grandfather has one too.
But my grandfather doesn't have one.
Let me see it, Ipung.
…seven, eight.
Now hold your chins.
Wow, this is cool!
Turn your head to the right.
-This is nice, Ipung.
-Come on.
You can find plenty of these
at the bird market.
No way!
Not everyone has this.
My grandfather says this is a rare item.
You can't find it in the market.
He's just exaggerating.
Hey! Watch your mouth.
I've seen this.
-No way.
-I have.
There is no way!
-You're stubborn. It exists.
-No, it doesn't.
-It doesn't exist.
-Put your hands forward.
Hey, Ipung.
What's wrong with your mouth?
…eight.
Put your arms down.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight.
Hey! Ipung!
Stop joking around!
Ipung!
One of them is through predation.
What's wrong, Ipung?
What do you call them?
-Predator.
Yes, predator.
Ipung?
-What's wrong with you, Ipung?
-Nothing.
Oh, right.
Here's your turtledove whistle.
Why do you have it?
You lent it to me earlier.
Oh, that's right.
Thank you.
Where are you going?
You run like seeing a ghost.
How are you feeling?
I feel nauseous, like I've caught a cold.
Wait.
Did you take what was in here?
Yes, I threw it in the river.
What?
What were you thinking?
You can't just act carelessly.
Since I was the one who put it there,
I should have been the one to remove it.
So what do we do now?
You might be sick because of this.
I have to fix this now.
WELCOME TO KERTORANGKING VILLAGE
Kid, do you know
where is Grandpa Mirkun's house?
Over there.
That's my grandfather's house.
Really?
Grandpa Mirkun is your grandfather?
Yes.
Let's bring him with us.
As it happens, I'm heading there too.
-How about we go together?
-Sure, Uncle.
-Come on, get on.
-Yes.
-Get on, kid.
-Thanks, Uncle.
Yes, get on.
Come on, get on, kid.
Over here.
Come on.
-Sit there.
-Yes, right there.
Let's get moving.
-What's wrong, kid?
-Nothing.
-Why is your face so pale?
-It's nothing.
-Are you sure you're okay?
-Yes, Uncle.
Why are you guys going to Grandpa's house?
To pay our respects, of course.
Oh my! Are you lost here, kid?
Once you're lost like this,
it's hard to find your way back.
Better stay here. Right?
Ask if he wants to go home or stay here.
Come on! This is for our entertainment.
Just stay here!
-Accompany me, Son.
-No need to come home.
Grandma!
What's wrong?
What's the matter?
Why are you such a mess like this?
I'm being followed by a ghost.
Help me, Grandma.
Come here.
Don't be afraid. Grandma's here.
The ghost is gone now.
It's okay.
Everything's fine now.
Honey…
Is this your toy, Ipung?
Yes, Auntie.
Auntie.
Ipung.
Is your grandma home?
She's lying down in her room, Auntie.
Please come in.
I'll call her for you.
No need.
I just want to return
your grandmother's food container.
Okay.
Are you feeling unwell?
Yes, Auntie.
-Caught it from your grandmother?
-Yes, probably.
I just bought some herbal medicine
from my regular place.
Usually when I'm not feeling well,
this medicine helps me recover quickly.
Here, drink it now.
So you'll get better soon.
You'll feel much better after drinking it.
-Here.
-Good boy.
-I'll head home now.
-Okay.
Tell your grandmother that I stopped by.
Yes, Auntie.
Thank you, Auntie.
-You're welcome.
-Sure.
Grandpa! Help, I'm inside!
Grandpa! Please help me!
Tirto!
What is it?
Cut the small talk.
What's your connection with Pete?
What do you mean?
What did you do to Pete and Wiwik?
I only help lost souls.
What do you know about Pete?
Pete!
Hey!
What did you do to my grandchild?
Pete!
-Answer me now!
-Grandpa!
What are you doing?
You two are wicked people!
What did you do to my wife and grandchild?
What do you mean?
Don't pretend you don't know.
I know everything!
Your husband ended up like this
because you wanted to be rich!
Think it through!
If life is already miserable,
don't ask the devil for help!
Don't talk nonsense!
You think your husband will recover?
He never will!
He'll be like this until he dies.
I curse you!
-Grandpa!
-You have no manners!
Barging in
and making accusations without proof!
-What do you mean?
-Child? Where are you?
-Grandpa!
-Child?
Don't do whatever you want
just because we're poor!
-Grandpa!
-Where are you, child?
Get out of here!
Grandpa!
Help me, Grandpa!
Grandpa, help! Grandpa!
Grandpa, I'm here!
Grandpa!
Grandpa, help me!
Brother Manto.
I really need your help.
My grandchild must return.
Yes.
-I'll do my best.
-Yes. Thank you.
Take this with you.
This will help you.
Ipung.
Grandpa?
Come here, Ipung.
Ipung.
Grandpa?
Grandpa!
Ipung.
Grandpa?
Come here, Ipung.
Ipung.
Come on.
Ipung, come with me!
Let's go!
Grandpa.
Grandpa?
Ipung?
Ipung.
Grandpa!
Ipung?
Ipung!
Grandpa.
Grandpa!
Ipung!
Grandpa? Grandpa!
Come on, Ipung! Run!
Help!
-Come with me!
-My grandfather is still there!
Let's go!
-Where are you going?
-The market.
-I see.
-Good morning.
Hey.
-Are you feeling better now, Pete?
-Yes, sir.
So when's the celebration feast?
Anytime. I'm ready whenever.
-You promise?
-Yes.
-I'll be waiting, then.
-See you, Wiwik!
-Yes.
-Did you buy the galangal?
-Yeah, I put it on the table.
Okay.
Don't forget the tea for your Grandpa.
Help!